The Etergarde was established shortly after Eterion’s founding centuries ago and it has held onto power for as long as the city has existed. After the shattering, it was again re-established when the population reached a tipping point. Besides taking care of the petty and not-so-pretty crimes, the purpose of the Etergarde is broader in scope than that of a usual peacekeeping force.

The force is split between multiple person cells that each operate under a specific directive and solve a specific kind of issue. These cells are overseen by coordinators who further point them towards a direction that would benefit the city. While some cells really are just comprised of detectives who investigate crimes, others are tasked with building surveillance networks while others yet forgo all that completely and oversee the restoration efforts of the forgotten lands. While people can apply to join the force, most people join it after receiving an invite from one of the recruitment cells.

A large concentration of ambedo, a feeling akin to nothingness, has manifested in Eterion in crystal form. Strong emotions can often “stick” to these crystals, creating a permanent vignette of the past that can be accessed with the right tools. These prove to be instrumental in various investigations as they provide an honest perspective that can be taken as a testimony. Some recruits specialize in the utilization of this phenomena, and can fit well into any cell that doesn’t already have a dedicated clairvoyant. Clairvoyants are outfitted with equipment that helps them focus in on the emotions found in the crystals, and can even let them interact with the recording to an extent. Regular field agents can carry a larger variety of equipment that depends on their cell’s purpose. When that purpose is to enforce the law, it often includes a standard-issue dual shot flintlock pistol, and a small-to-medium bladed weapon of the person’s preference. Uniforms can wildly differ between cells, but they always have the Etergarde insignia woven into the design and wear colors that represent the cell’s purpose.

In what is pretty much an afterlife to a lot of people who end up in Eterion, serious crimes are seen as nothing short of heresy and abandonment of the ideals of Bruma. Inconsideration is seen as one of the if not the worst trait one seeking redemption could have, and is thus shunned throughout the city. It is within everyone’s interest that these ungrateful heretics be brought to justice, and citizen cooperation with the force is higher than any other seen throughout the planes. While the force may sometimes overstep its bounds with its surveillance cells, the citizens are largely unaware of such activities. There is a social contract between the force and the citizens - the city is all everyone here has left, and if unsavory things must be done to preserve it then so will be the case.

The biggest enemies of the force are perhaps not even the petty criminals, but the void of forgotten places that surrounds Eterion. While a small group of people still live to remember them, It is not enough to anchor them into reality and they remain a dangerous and ever shifting terrain. A notable number of cells dedicate themselves to the restoration of these lands, and they do so by implanting the knowledge of their existence into the heads of regular citizens. These cells are often comprised of painters and musicians who venture into unreality and try to capture the essence of these places.. Painted landscapes and towns are laid out in the city’s various cafes, music long forgotten plays on the busy squares and the parks echo the sounds of long gone wilderness. This knowledge, a feeling of those places is experienced by those who were never there and who could never go there. It is this process that pushes the borders of unreality ever so slightly back, giving hope that one day people will again walk on those grounds and settle where once was nothing.
