There are many things in Dunyor that could lead a person to madness. The nigh endless nights of Vesperik are a constant source of despair for all who must live through them. The ruins underneath the Lior desert have induced crippling claustrophobia and mania in countless explorers and those who call them home. Ulvandul’s bottomless oceans have created an irrepressible fear of the depths and water in general to all who were unlucky enough to try and find their bottom, which makes the fact that they encompass the plane all the more terrifying. Yet one condition remains a constant throughout the planes as the definitive way to lose one’s mind.

When looking at a plane’s edge, the uninitiated observer might not even notice that the edge is there. They will look far into the void and see vast and unending landscapes stretching as far as their eyes can see. This is but an illusion - a trick their minds use to escape a terrible fate. The images they see are but their imagination projected onto the vast nothingness, for if they were to truly see what lies beyond their psyche would be broken. Yet a bit of the illness still seeps into those who wander where they shouldn’t and those who spend time near the edges of a plane.

The first sign someone is afflicted by the “flickering” is an increased presence of ambedo. The afflicted will spend increasing amounts of time in a sedentary pose, their body still and their eyes looking ever beyond. The void will spread through their mind like fog, obscuring their thoughts and reducing cognitive function. Should they give in to it, their condition will worsen until they are fully consumed. As they approach this stage, they will cease to respond to most stimuli and their being will adapt ghostly features. At times they might appear translucent and their bodies may simply phase through objects. This is the point of no return, as further influence of ambedo will start flickering them completely. They will spontaneously cease to exist and later appear unaware of the passage of time. When they reach this stage, it is most likely that they will never recover and will soon simply flicker for the last time before disappearing completely, consumed by nothingness.

To combat flickering, the afflicted must replace ambedo with other strong emotions and it is recommended they spend a good amount of time in the company of others. New memories must be created and strong feelings must be felt to balance out the nothingness within the afflicted. With time, the ambedo will dissipate and the afflicted will be in control of their thoughts once again.

Despite seeming easy to both avoid and cure, flickering has claimed many lives. It can sometimes manifest in people who have never been near a plane’s edge but have simply spent a lot of time in isolation. Clairvoyants can often become afflicted through frequent use of their artifacts, contracting ambedo through frozen memories. The city of Eterion in general boasts a large number of flickering cases due to the close proximity of the city to the plane’s edges. In places bordering the edges of a plane, it is often a common punishment to imprison people near the void, replacing their execution with a slow forgetting of their own existence.
