Situated the furthest from the rest of the planes, Eterion was broken off from Dunyor earlier than the other planes. The region surrounding the city has been partially lost to the unreality following its fracture, but it may be possible to restore some of the lost parts in the future. It remains as the only plane where autumn is the dominant season. It is characterized by frequent mists and unstable weather. The city of Eterion itself was completely annihilated during the Shattering, but it has since been rebuilt to be almost identical to the old city. Due to its more unstable nature, the emotions experienced on the plane often end up “sticking” to places and can even crystalize provided they are strong enough, providing insight into the events where they were created. This has made the city into a museum of vignettes frozen in time.

Following the city’s destruction, Eterians have been brought over from other planes by the Purities of Bruma. The Purities serve as guides to a democratically elected council of representatives and often spend their time among the people, helping them out with day to day activities. Sometimes, if individuals from other planes seeking redemption embody the ideals of Bruma enough, the Purities will offer them a new life in the city. The city’s primary focus has always been in the scientific and technological pursuits brought on by the large concentration of “shards” present on the plane. Despite their smaller population, they stand as the most educated and advanced society in Dunyor.

Eterians are fascinated by the ideals of Bruma, those being redemption and atonement. They spend their lives in a constant pursuit of humble improvement. Self sacrifice is seen as a virtue and martyrdom as a highest form of glory. The city is infused with a melancholic yet hopeful atmosphere, ever steadily pushing forward in pursuit of the unknown.
