Located near the Light, Lior stands as one of the hottest planes of Dunyor. Its once lush rainforests have been reduced to desert wastelands with only a couple of oases sprinkled about. Life gathers around one of its 3 large rivers or smaller underground reservoirs. Some Liorans have even settled the underground ruins of the old cities, hoping to avoid the harsh sunlight and to stay away from major conflicts raging on above ground.

Lioran people are split between a dozen tribes corresponding to ancient noble houses and are often engaged in various territory disputes. Owing to this, their advances in methods of warfare and arms remain among the most developed across all of the planes. Warlords and tribe leaders often have complete authority over their people in a kind of improvised dictatorship. The largest tribes that have control of the bigger cities often end up loosening their grip on their citizens, forming a council of elders to manage their various institutions. While the Purities have been all but forgotten by Liorans, they still adhere to the core ideals of Vamor and often seek to prove them in violent battles. In the harsh deserts might makes right, and Liorans are taught to be merciless to those outside their tribe from a young age.

Liorans have re-discovered gunpowder early after the Shattering, and it has become one of the pillars of their culture. Large fireworks shows are a common occurrence, and explosions of all kinds are used for various ceremonial purposes. Recently, there has been a wave of rekindled fascination by the buried cities of old and several large tribes have made attempts to venture into them to recover old artifacts and learn more about their ancestors. This has led to the creation of a new class of ruin delvers, explorers who abandon all else in pursuit of ancient artifacts and knowledge buried deep beneath the sand.
