Vesperik was hit the hardest when Dunyor shattered. Flung far from the relatively central position it once stood in, it was turned into a cold, forested wasteland. Its days are between 4 and 6 hours long, and its winters dominate all other seasons. The forests seem to have a will of their own, and have rampantly grown to cover almost the entire plane. A large number of the creatures of the plane have evolved to be bioluminescent, turning those forests into starry skies just waiting for someone to wander in. The predatory lifeforms that reside within them are of incredible diversity, and it is likely that nobody will ever see them all.

To be a Vesperan is to suffer, for every day to be a struggle and every obstacle a threat to survival. Though certainly true in the early days, this mantra doesn’t paint a full picture. Comfortable lives can still be had within heated, large-walled cities if they are earned through sufficient sacrifice. Roles in society are strictly defined and optimized for each individual, leaving little room for choice or personal freedom. Mandatory military service is a harsh reality for all young Vesperans, and likely a lifetime career for most men. On the other hand, most administrative and physically undemanding careers are left for women, leading to their domination in the chain of command. To survive in Vesperik, nothing can be afforded to go to waste, the least of which being talent. Vesperans are ruled by several noble bloodlines descended from regular people who rose up to become leaders during the early days after the Shattering. Some of them have even become Purities of Trumst, forcing their holy ideals upon their society.

Each Vesperan has to find their own anchor in the world to keep sane. Some dedicate themselves fully to the cause of humanity and their career, while others turn to companionship in search of solace. They learn to accept the purpose their society has given them, and work together for their collective survival. There can be no room for traitorous individualism or greed, for those have led countless people before them to their doom.
