# *Year 0 AS (After Shattering)*

The historic region of Veglendal had long been the centre of prosperity in Dunyor. The bountiful river-valleys had been humanity’s home for millennia. Its merchant republics had finally united under a duo of monarchs, and had begun to spread their influence across the continent. In parallel to the colonization of various less advanced northern civilizations, a visionary by the name of Dorn Niall would lead his legendary expedition to settle the edge of the known world, founding the city of Eterion at the continent’s northwestern edge. Motivated in part by ideological disagreements, his city would be shaped by ideas of independence from the Duumvirate and societal progress. More than a century later the city state would initiate a guerilla campaign against the Duumvirate with the goal of releasing the subjugated regions, helped by the experienced Eterinian navy, local dissidents and a low risk factor due to their geographic isolation and distance from Veglendal.

Over the course of the decade the progressive ideology managed to spread in the minds of Veglendal’s people, and many sympathisers would rise up to further destabilize the regions under Duumvirate’s control. Realizing the logistical impossibility of transporting their military forces all the way to Eterion and understanding their naval inferiority, the Duumvirate had turned to various unconventional methods in search of a solution. Shamans and mystics could suddenly be found counseling the maddened rulers, promising forbidden powers if only they would listen. While the duarchs’ sanity had often been called into question during this period, one of their experiments miraculously managed to yield results. A team of royal engineers had been assembled and put up to the task of creating a doomsday weapon capable of erasing entire swaths of land and everything contained within them.

With their control growing thinner every day and their resources stretched far and wide, the once prosperous empire would begin to crumble under pressure. The border skirmishes led by the subjugated peoples were starting to break through their defensive lines and into their homelands, riots had become a commonplace occurrence in once stable cities and their last hope - the team of engineers working on the weapon, had been partially swayed into disobedience. Yet the weapon was completed. While the rulers were celebrating their imminent decapitation of Eterion, the rebellious engineers had attempted to sabotage the weapon. They were caught and executed for their crimes, and the damage was swiftly patched up. In their impatience to end the conflict, the weapon’s first and hopefully only test was moved up in schedule by the duarchs themselves, forgoing a more thorough inspection after the sabotage.
